Suit of Wands

King of Wands Meaning
Upright: big picture, leader, overcoming challenges, Reversed: impulsive, overbearing, unachievable expectations.
The King of Wands depicts a man who has in his hands a blossoming wand, which is set to represent creativity and life's passion. His throne, as well as his cape, are decorated with the salamander and the lion, which are symbols of fire and strength. The salamander that is biting his tail represents the infinity as well as the overall drive to move through all obstacles. The robe is bright and orange resembling a flame, while the crown is shaped like a tongue of fire. Let’s go ahead and take a deeper look at the symbolism behind the King of Wands.

Queen of Wands Meaning
Upright: courage, determination, joy, Reversed: selfishness, jealousy, insecurities.
The image depicted in the Queen of Wand shows a queen sitting proudly on a throne while facing forwards which is a clear symbol of strength and fire. She is holding a sunflower in her left hand, and the image of the sunflowers are also carved on the throne - meaning happiness, satisfaction, and fertility. In her right hand, she is holding her wand which is starting to blossom, and symbolizes life. In her positive aspects, the Queen of Wands can be associated with fidelity, sustenance, and warmth. Her hidden side is hinted at with the placement of the black cat at her feet, which is traditionally a symbol of witchcraft and occultism, but can also point at her ability to grasp with her deep intuition.

Knight of Wands Meaning
Upright: action, adventure, fearlessness, Reversed: anger, impulsiveness, recklessness.
The Knight of Wands is seen on his horse that is reared up and ready for action. Judging from the knight’s clothes and armor, as well as his horse, he is prepared for what’s ahead. He is wearing a yellow patterned shirt on top of his metal armor. He is also wearing an armor helmet with red plume sticking out of it. He seems to be ready for battle, except he is holding a large wand instead of a sword. His horse is orange in color and has a mane that looks like flames. When you look at the Knight of Wands' face, you’ll see the determination of wanting to be successful in his endeavor. Fire is a dominate factor in the Knight of Wands' symbolism. The decorative tassels hanging from his arms and back, as well as the horse’s mane, are all in the color of flame. He is also wearing a yellow shirt printed with the fiery salamander symbol.

Page of Wands Meaning
Upright: exploration, excitement, freedom, Reversed: lack of direction, procrastination, creating conflict.
A well-dressed young man is boldly holding a stick standing on a barren land. His shirt is made in a salamander like pattern which is a symbol of transformation from bad to good. This young man is a passionate advocator, who is constantly spreading spiritual and social advancement ideas that lift up his fellow man. The desert in the background behind him both is indicative of his element, fire, and also represents that he is living in a world that has not bared fruit yet. His ideas are therefore completely hypothetical. However, if he were to choose to use them, and undertake the journey of his suit, his purity of heart could lead him to find better fortunes.

Ten of Wands Meaning
Upright: accomplishment, responsibility, burden, Reversed: inability to delegate, overstressed, burnt out.
A man is shown carrying a heavy burden of wood, in the form of ten bundled wands, approaching a town which is not too far. This image on the ten of wands indicates a person who has already struggled in life and has succeeded, and he is now carrying the harvests to his final destination. Although he is not near the destination, it shows that he has finished the hardest part of life struggle and he just needs a place to relax and revel in his success.

Nine of Wands Meaning
Upright: resilience, grit, last stand, Reversed: exhaustion, fatigue, questioning motivations.
The Nine of Wands shows a weak-looking man holding on to a wand with 8 other upright wands standing behind them. The man looks injured, but he still seems ready to fight another battle, and desires strongly to win. He has a look of hope and determination about him that should help him go through that one last battle. It is a card that shows a mix of challenges, hope and triumph.

Eight of Wands Meaning
Upright: rapid action, movement, quick decisions, Reversed: panic, waiting, slowdown.
The Eight of Wands is depicted as eight flying staves that appear as if they are suspended in the air. Some may look at them as wands that are blossoming that are traveling at a maximum speed. The background where they travel through is a clear sky which represents that there is likely nothing that will stand in the way of these making it to their destination. It shows a majestic landscape with a river that is streaming, the water breathing life to the image. The wands also appear like they are about to land, which signals the end of a long journey.

Seven of Wands Meaning
Upright: perseverance, defensive, maintaining control, Reversed: give up, destroyed confidence, overwhelmed.
The Seven of Wands has an image of a man who is standing on a tall hill and being challenged by the opponents below. He seems to be defending this position and attacking in retaliation. It is interesting to note that in the Rider-Waite depiction of the Seven of Wands, the man is wearing not matching shoes. This is linked to the symbolism of being on uneven ground or not having a stable footing in life.

Six of Wands Meaning
Upright: victory, success, public reward, Reversed: excess pride, lack of recognition, punishment.
The Six of Wands tarot card depicts a man who is currently wearing a wreath of victory around his head. He is depicted riding a horse through a crowd of people who are cheering. The horse is white, which is a well-known symbol of strength, purity as well as success. The crowd is there to show the public’s recognition for the achievements of the man riding the horse. The wand that the man is carrying also has a wreath which is tied to it in an attempt to further emphasize his success. The man is not afraid, or shy about all of this attention but rather proud with his accomplishments. To this, the crowd around him reacts with cheerfulness and enthusiasm.

Five of Wands Meaning
Upright: competition, rivalry, conflict, Reversed: avoiding conflict, respecting differences.
The Five of Wands depicts five men all holding their own wands and brandishing them up in the air. Like with most fives in the tarot, it is about some kind of disagreement that is facing the querent. This disagreement can either be taken to be as a sign of conflict between the men, or that all of them are simply enjoying the adrenaline rush of this conflict, and that the competition amongst them is of a good natured rivalry, not anger. The relaxed way in which they seem to be holding their wands gives a sense that this argument may be one of show rather than a fierce one.

Four of Wands Meaning
Upright: community, home, celebration, Reversed: lack of support, transience, home conflicts.
The Four of Wands depicts a couple which dances beneath the welcome wreath which is tied between four wands, which are crystal tipped. There is a canopy of flowers on the card which resembles the canopy that is particularly characteristic of the traditional Jewish ceremony. There seems to be a party that is going on, or some kind of welcome committee for the couple in question. You can see from the image that it represents a time which is sprinkled with feelings of fulfillment, satisfaction brought by the actual attainment of a goal.

Three of Wands Meaning
Upright: looking ahead, expansion, rapid growth, Reversed: obstacles, delays, frustration.
The Three of Wands depicts a man who is standing on the edge of a cliff, looking over the ocean and the mountains. From the cliff edge, he sees everything that is ahead of him. The Wands are planted into the ground and surround the man as he grasps one in his hand. He seems to look forward and reflect on both the commitment that he has for his plans, as well as the method of execution in order to bring them to reality.

Two of Wands Meaning
Upright: planning, making decisions, leaving home, Reversed: fear of change, playing safe, bad planning.
In a general context, the Two of Wands signifies having two paths. When this Minor Arcana card appears in your Tarot reading you have decisions to make or a choice between two options but remember the grass isn’t always greener on the other side! This card can signify overseas travel, sudden departures, emigration and deciding if you will stay or go. It can also indicate a lack of contentment with your life, restlessness, withdrawal and detachment. It can represent waiting, anticipation and wanderlust. It is also a card of cooperation, business partnerships or overseas expansion.

Ace of Wands Meaning
Upright: creation, willpower, inspiration, desire, Reversed: lack of energy, lack of passion, boredom.
Wands are associated with fire energy, and the Ace of Wands is the core representation of fire within the deck. The card shows a hand that is sticking out of a cloud while holding the wand. 
When we look at this card, we can see that the hand is reaching out to offer the wand, which is still growing. Some of the leaves from the wand have sprouted, which is meant to represent spiritual and material balance and progress. In the distance is a castle that symbolizes opportunities available in the future.

